                NetHack 3.4.3 -- Android port

This directory contains files needed to build NetHack for use on handheld
devices running the Android operating systems, such as the HTC Dream
(T-Mobile G1).

The game is built as native C code, cross-compiled for the CPU of the target
platform. On top of this, an Android Java application provides the user
interface, which in its initial form mostly operates as an ANSI terminal
emulator displaying the TTY UI of NetHack.

Due to the nature of the game, it will probably work best if you have a
physical keyboard, and run the game in landscape mode. There is
limited support for scrolling in portrait mode, and using a soft keyboard.

For building this port of the game, you will need Linux or similar UNIX-like
system (the author used Fedora Core 11). You will need to download and install
the Android SDK, as well as the NDK (currently available at
developer.android.com). Make sure you can build a simple native code
application, such as the 'hello-jni' sample included with the NDK, before
trying to build the full game. You will probably also want to install Eclipse
and configure it for the NDK, though it's probably possible somehow to build
from the command line as well.

Once that's set up, the procedure for building the game is:
1. Unpack the source tree somewhere.
2. Open 'sys/android/setup.sh' in a text editor, and change ANDROID_NDK_DIR to
   indicate the path where you have installed the Android NDK.
3. Verify options in 'include/config.h' and elsewhere, if you want anything
   different than the standard configuration.
4. Run Eclipse and create a new project, importing the source code from
   'sys/android/NetHackApp'.
5. Make 'sys/android' your current directory, and run 'setup.sh'. This should
   create some symbolic links and do other preparations to make your source
   tree ready to build the Android port.
6. Go to the 'dat' folder, and type 'make'. This builds the data files,
   using tools built for the host computer.
7. Go to your NDK directory (as specified as ANDROID_NDK_DIR).
8. Type 'make APP=NetHackNative' to build the native code.
9. Go back to Eclipse, build and launch the application.

Note: the approach above assumes that any data files generated on the host
computer are compatible with the target platform. There might be big/little
endian issues or other problems, but using a regular Intel-based PC
(running 32 bit Linux) and compiling for ARM (HTC Hero, etc) there are
no problems known to the author.

For the latest version of this Android port of NetHack, see
  http://code.google.com/p/nethack-android/

For more information about how to control this port of NetHack, press the
Menu button when the game is running to access the About dialog.

As always, this port of NetHack comes with no warranty. It started out as
a simple personal project which was made available for the public. Feel free
to try to contact me if you have a problem or feature request, but my time
for this project is fairly limited.

Fredrik Farnstrom
farnstrom@gmail.com
October 12, 2009
